---
layout: post
title: "The key to overcoming the language plateau"
description: "How to overcome the intermediate plateau and advance to fluency"
category: learning
featured: false
published: false
image: plateau.jpg
---

We have all sat on the incline of the language plateau, looking a list of endless vocabulary, wondering if we will  ever reach fluency. Can't we substitute "proficient" for "fluent"? After all, we can talk about so many things in our target language!

This feeling of being stuck is a symptom of the plateau. This typically happens at the intermediate-advanced level, in part because the learner can understand 60% to 80% of their target language. Their communication skills are "good enough" but they are not yet fluent. Linguist [Jack Richards](http://www.professorjackrichards.com/wp-content/uploads/moving-beyond-the-plateau.pdf) relates several problems connected to this plateau: unnatural speech, limited vocabulary, gaps between input (listening, reading) and output (speaking, writing) activities, and lack of complex grammar usage. In other words, the learner still has a long way to go. Yet learners often have difficulty monitoring their progress at this stage.

The reason progress isn't obvious is because you must now delve into specificity. Luckily, in order to get through this and reach fluency, you simply need to shift your methodology!

According to Richards, here are some tips of how to overcome the hurdle and master your language:

##Practice complex grammar

**Get out of your comfort zone** and start pushing yourself to learn new forms. If you don't understand a sentence, but know all the words, **diagram it** and take note of any gaps in knowledge. Try buying a comprehensive grammar book in your target language and working through it, or look into guides for high-level certification, such as C1-C2. Generally these will give advanced grammar topics that native speakers don't even think about!

##Set vocabulary goals

Learn vocabulary **by topic** and set a goal for how many words to learn a day. Richards believes that a vocabulary of about **5000-6000** should get you through to the next level. We suggest looking at **variations** of each word you learn. If you are learning a noun, is there a verb form? An adjective? Adverb? You can find these derivative terms on [Wiktionary](www.wikitionary.com) or via an online dictionary in your target language.

##Find native speakers

Find a language partner and *analyze your conversations*. Try to mimic interviews in your target language. This will help you figure out correct intonation, filler-words and idioms to use in real conversation.

Richards isn't the only one with advice. Another article by research [Qing Xu](http://www.ccsenet.org/journal/index.php/ass/article/viewFile/434/409) suggests that "good learning" in overcoming the plateau depends on the learner implementing an active and deliberate strategy, with the help of teachers and native speakers. Xu states that an affective strategy is one that places emphasis on **productive activities**, and one in which the learner **persists** and maintains a **positive attitude**.
