---
layout: post
title: "How to learn from the news"
description: "How to learn a language from a news source"
category: learning
featured: false
published: false
image: newspaper.jpg
---

Ever wanted to read the news in your target language only to meet paragraph-upon-paragraph of unfamiliar vocabulary? Newspapers usually include standard vocabulary, meaning that if you are focusing on
colloquial, every-day speech, many terms will be new to you.

Here are 5 tips on how to navigate the news:

##Read at your level

If you are beginner, try searching for news written for teenagers. The language will be simpler, sentences shorter, and there will be more illustrations. If you can't find a website for this audience, try reading only culture-related articles that have an audio-visual accompaniment.

The more senses you engage, the easier reading will be. Only middle-intermediate and advanced learners should tackle editorials, as they often contain idiomatic expressions which can be confusing for beginners.

##Read about a topic you already understand

Top news outlets similar to CNN will offer international news, meaning that you can find a topic you know something about. But local outlets also features city-based news that give an insight into the target culture. As your vocabulary grows, try reading less global news segments and delve into business or technology.

Of course, if your goal is mastering business vocabulary, start with this section.

##Look for Audio/Video

Audio-visual elements not only offer a chance to better your reading comprehension, but they also provide more materials for exercises like dictation or pronunciation practice. Websites such as the BBC usually have a video accompanying their article. If no video is included, try copy-and-pasting the headline or some keywords into a google search. Then click on the *videos* tab.

You may not always get a video matching the article, but the videos will be on a similar theme, using related vocabulary.

##Use the net

If you are reading an article and find a name, try reading about this person - in your native and target language. This will not only lend more context to the article and increase your vocabulary, but it will give you some extra culture insights.

##Summarize

Keep a language diary in which you can summarize news in your target language and note useful sentences or vocabulary. Always be on the look out not only for new words, but also for new sentence structures. Learning a variety of sentence structures will make your speech sound more natural and sophisticated.

If you aren't sure which outlet to start with, try using {{ site.wordbrewery }}'s Explore mode. Find a sentence you like at your level, then click "source" to read the original article. Then you can peruse the news at your own pace.

If you are struggling with reading in general, check out these tips for [reading efficiently](https://wordbrewery.com/blog/learning/strategies-for-reading-foreign-texts/).
